---
layout: post
title:  Pytest
date:   2019-04-12 
categories: ["Python"]
---

# Pytest

## Where to save your tests in your project

```
mypkg/
    __init__.py
    appmodule.py
tests/
    test_app.py
    ...
```

or

```
mypkg/
    __init__.py
    appmodule.py
    ...
    test/
        test_app.py
        ...
```


## Running Pytest


### Basic ways of running pytest

* `python -m pytest [optional_test_file]`
* `pytest <TEST_DIR>`

__Testing individual tests__ `pytest <test-file>::<test-function-name>`, e.g. pytest tests/test_a.py::test_func

### Testing Classes

__Testing all methods in a *test class*__ `pytest <test-file>::<test-class>`

__Testing a specific method in a *test class*__ `pytest <test-file>::<test-class>::<test-method-name>`

### Title

__list the tests without running the tests__ `pytest <test-file> --collect-only`, which is useful finding out a test name.

## Nice features using pytest CLI

Stop running pytest based on failures

* stopping after the first (or N) failures

Selecting tests

* specifying / selecting tests to run

PDB
* opening up PDB on failures during pytest is running

Profiling tests

* Profiling test execution duration, e.g. get the ist of the slowest 10 test durations

Grouping multiple tests in a class

Asserting that a certain exception is raised

```python
# content of test_sysexit.py
import pytest
def f():
    raise SystemExit(1)

def test_mytest():
    with pytest.raises(SystemExit):
        f()
```

`f()` raises an exception, when the exception propagates up the call stack it is caught by pytest.raises(Exception) and the test passes.


## Pytest discovering tests

* If no arguments are specified then collection starts from **testpaths** (if configured) or the current directory. Alternatively, command line arguments can be used in any combination of directories, file names or node ids.
* recurse into directories, unless they match **norecursedirs**.
* `test_*.py` or `*_test.py` files, imported by their test package name.
* `Test` prefixed test *classes* (without an __init__ method).
* `test_` prefixed test *functions* or *methods* are test items.

## What is a fixture

* Test fixtures, fixing specifics parts of the environment so that the test can be reliably and repeatedly executed.

* Replaces setup/ teardown functions seen in classic xUnit style e.g. Junit
  * Setup/ teardown functions provided this test fixture functionality.

* modular, each fixture name triggers, a *fixture function* which can itself use other fixtures
* reuse fixtures across class, module, or whole test session scopes (e.g. scope of Pytest)

* Fixture finalisation

Equivalent to tear down function

```python

def fin():
        print ("teardown smtp")
        smtp.close()

@pytest.fixture(scope="module")
def smtp(request):
    smtp = smtplib.SMTP("smtp.gmail.com")
    request.addfinalizer(fin)
    return smtp  # provide the fixture value
```

`request.addfinalizer(fin)` after the last test using the fixture in the module has finished exection `fin` is executed.

If fixture function is `@pytest.fixture(scope="function")` then the fixture setup and cleanup would occur around each single test.

funcargs - Fixtures as function arguments

### Fixtures as function arguments
